# log entry 01

This is the first log entry. I decided to go with:

- base for SDD: https://github.github.com/spec-kit
- AI agentic tool: https://github.com/features/copilot/cli
- claude-sonnet-4.6 model
- nvim as my editor
- git for version control

## Constitution

After setting up Copilot and the repo structure, I created a constitution using the Spec Kit agent and prompts. In copilot-cli, I switched to the constitution agent and typed in:

> private chat web application that will use signal protocol for encryption

which generated the constitution in the ./specify/memory/constitution.md file.

## First specification

Then I created the first spec using the same approach, but this time I switched to the spec agent and typed in:

> main page that asks for username and password to enter the portal. The page has a button 'Join network'. Username is a text that user types in and will be his identification, password is a one, global shared password. I mean that if you want to enter the portal you have to know the hardcoded password, it is first, simple entry gate for anyone to join the portal

which created a new branch and generated a specs directory with the first spec and some MD files.

After that, I ran the /clarify agent, which asked me a few questions about the spec and then updated it with more details and acceptance criteria.

Next, I ran the plan agent, which created a technical implementation plan after my prompt:

> microservices architecture. On the frontend there should be a React app, many backend services should be created. First backend service is the one responsible for the initial authorization with globally set password and username. Other backend services will be created in the future. Backend API should be built using Spring Boot and Java 25. Databases will use Postgresql. Everything should be dockerized and docker-compose should be used. Also there should be an API gateway for the services

Then I updated the plan using the same agent. I prompted:

> update the plan based on my notes: auth-service should be named 'entry-auth-service', instead of Vite + React use Next.js + React, do not use pom.xml - instead use @Configuration annotation that spring allows

Copilot updated the plan. Then it told me to run the tasks agent. I ran the agent and it created a list of tasks. Sweet.

After that, I was told to run the implementation agent. But before that, I had the option to run the analyze agent, which would analyze all the markdown files and see if they made sense. This also looked at the constitution and checked if everything was in line with it.

The interesting part came next, which is implementation. I ran the implementation agent to see how it would go.

The initial code did not work; I had to manually fix a couple of things and go back and forth with the implementation agent. That took some time and energy.

After the fixes and making sure that the code worked, I asked an agent for a code review. It changed some code, but not much. Then I asked the agent to update the specification based on the current state of the code. It made a minor update to the specs.

At the very end I run again the /analyze agent to see what will happen. It found some issues with markdown files and test code.

---

To sum up, the process consisted of these steps:

1. create initial constitution
2. create a single specification (this is repeated across development)
   2.1. create initial specification
   2.2. clarify specification
   2.3. plan technical implementation
   2.4. update technical plan using the same model
   2.5. run tasks agent
   2.6. optionally run analyze agent
   2.7. run implementation agent
   2.8. manually fix the code if needed
   2.9. still using implementation agent, continue fixing until the code works
   2.10. ask the implementation agent for a code review
   2.11. ask the implementation agent to update the specification based on current state of the code
   2.12. ask the implementation agent to fix not working tests
   2.13. run analyze agent again for final check

My outtake: the flow looks promising, especially since each specification is organized in a directory and a separate branch. After the implementation phase, I had to do both manual and AI-driven fixes. That is the worst part of the process. Therefore, this approach is fine as long as you have the skills to verify and fix generated code. It seems like a nice tool to enhance software development, but it is not a valid replacement for a skilled dev.

I'm not sure yet. I need some more tests of this approach.

---

Sources:

- https://martinfowler.com/articles/exploring-gen-ai/sdd-3-tools.html
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7tjmA_0pl2c
- https://github.github.com/spec-kit
